# JVM

A java program is complied into Bytecode. Unlike C or C++, they are compiled into machine languages. 

Bytecode is a platform independent instruction set, that can be executed by an interpreter. An interpretor is also a program, which is often written in C or C++
JVM, is a kind of interpretor. It interprete the bytecode generated by the Java compiler (javac)

Pros:
- Same bytecode can run unchanged on multiple platforms. It reduces the burden to port a language to a new platform. 
Cons:
- performance hit. becuase of the added layer of indirection. It has significantly been improved, by just-in-time-compilation, wherein the JVM identifies at run0tim code sections that are most commonly executed, and generates native machine code for those sections. 

[Java Memory Leak Understand](https://www.baeldung.com/java-memory-leaks)
One of the core benefits of Java is the automated memory management with the help of the built-in Garbage Collector (or GC for short). The GC implicitly takes care of allocating and freeing up memory and thus is capable of handling the majority of the memory leak issues.

While the GC effectively handles a good portion of memory, it doesn't guarantee a foolproof solution to memory leaking.

# Throw v.s. throws
- The throw keyword, is used to throw an exception, from a method or a static block.
```java
if (arr == null) throw new IllegalArgumentException("input array cannot be null!");
```

- Throws, on the other hand, is a method signature, that indicates a method could throw some exception under some situation. 
```java
public int binarySearch(int[] A, int target) throws IllegalArgumentException
```

Follow-up, checked and unchecked exceptions?
- 1) Checked: are the exceptions that are checked at compile time. If some code within a method throws a checked exception, then the method must either handle the exception or it must specify the exception using throws keyword.

- 2) Unchecked are the exceptions that are not checked at compiled time. In C++, all exceptions are unchecked, so it is not forced by the compiler to either handle or specify the exception. It is up to the programmers to be civilized, and specify or catch the exceptions. In Java exceptions under Error and RuntimeException classes are unchecked exceptions, everything else under throwable is checked.

> If a client can reasonably be expected to recover from an exception, make it a checked exception. If a client cannot do anything to recover from the exception, make it an unchecked exception.