---
title: High Frequent
layout: post
categories: [Zhuanti]
---

# Overview
What are big companies looking for?

# Summarization
We can use the following interview guidelines
## UNDERSTAND AND CLARIFY 
- Communication, understand the problem statement, and ask any clarifying questions
- Define the API signature, and again use this signature to verify the understanding
- If stucked (not able to get to any solution yet). Try to walk through the example given, and again understand the problem. 
- Try to propose some solution at this point (however native it could be), and ask for help if not able to improve

## PROPOSE SOLUTION
- Propose a solution. If we're using any datastructure, algorithms, try to explain why we want to use them.
- Walk through one example, write how each step will work, even with some pseudo code
- Clarify with interviewer if this is what they want. if yes, begin coding. if not ask what can be improved 

## CODE, FIND BUG, TEST
- Implement the actual logic in the proposed API 
- Find bugs (important!)
- walk through a few more test cases

## TIME & SPACE COMPLEXITY 
- analyze the time and space complexity

## FOLLOW-UP
- if there are follow-ups, try to answer

---
# High Frequent problems 

# p1 - get to know what big companies are looking for
- Decode ways
- Merge Intervals
- Rectangle Overlap
- Valid Word Abbreviation

# p2 - how to handle corner cases?
- Missing Ranges
- Valid Number
- Integer to Roman
- Pow(x, n)
- Find the celebrity
- Sparse Matrix Multiplication
- String to integer
- Roman to integer
- sqrt(x) ii
- palindrome number 
- add digits
- happy number
- binary representation
- 

# p3 - hash, your friend
- valid anagram
- find all anagrams in a string
- word abbreviation
- unique word abbreviation
- longest consecutive sequence
- load balancer
- first position unique character
- group anagrams
- repeated DNA
- valid suoku
- 

# p4 - BFS classic
- Surrounded regions
- walls and gates
- zombies in matrix
- open the lock
- 

# p5 - recursion on trees

# p6 - DFS in graph / 2D matrix (general)


---
# Enhanced datastructures & algorithms

## How do follow-up questions work?

## Trie  

## Union Find

## Stack & queue (HARD)
Sliding window maximum
Mono stack

## Sweep line & Deque

## Dynamic Programming I 

## Dynamic Programming II 

## Hard follow-up questions

---
[Word Break](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-break/)

[Word Search](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-search/submissions/)
[Word Search II](https://leetcode.com/problems/word-search-ii/)

Word Square

Word Ladder

LRU 

LFU